# SML6

While the SLL ecosystem is focused on transforming the game through
runtime bytecode patches, the SML toolchain is focused on ahead of
time recompilation of galimulator.

At this point, SML6 is technically game agnostic (provided it has),
and has little focus on the decompilation and recompilation aspect
it should have at a later point in time. Instead, the focus is
initially set on the lengthy process of generating mapping files.

SML6 uses gslStarplane's Autodeobf configuration, meaning that it
is also creating spStarmap-compatible mapping files.

## Tasks

SML6 provides the following tasks:
- `org.stianloader.sml6.tasks.DeobfuscateGameTask`
- `org.stianloader.sml6.tasks.FetchGameTask`
- `org.stianloader.sml6.tasks.XZTarBallerTask`
- `org.stianloader.sml6.tasks.XZCompressTask`

Unlike gslStarplane, all tasks should be compatible with gradle's
configuration cache by default.

Please note that unlike gslStarplane, no tasks are configurated by default.
As such, you need to register the tasks in the way you want. Of course,
some conventions are applied for your sanity. Please refer to the
"Task configuration" section for more in-depth information on the configuration
of individual tasks.

SML6 also provides the following internal tasks; they are not meant for
direct use by API users:
- `org.stianloader.sml6.tasks.AbstractArtifactTask`

## Task configuration

### DeobfuscateGameTask

The DeobfuscateGameTask task defines following properties:
- `autoDeobfVersion`: `Property<String>`, controlls the version of Autodeobf (only `"5.0.2"` supported at this point)
- `withAutodeobf`: `Property<Boolean>`, controlls whether to run Autodeobf
- `withSLDeobf`: `Property<Boolean>`, controlls whether to run slDeobf/oaktree
- `withSLDeobfMappings`: `Property<Boolean>`, controlls whether to generate slIntermediary mappings
- `outputDirectory`: `DirectoryProperty`, output files will be stored there by default
- `outputJar`: `RegularFileProperty`, the deobfuscated jar will be stored there
- `inputJar` (**mandatory**): `RegularFileProperty`, the obfuscated input jar
- `slIntermediaryMappings`: `RegularFileProperty`, output file for the slIntermediary mappings generated by sl-deobf. Uses the tinyv1 format.
- `spStarmapMappings`: `RegularFileProperty`, output file for the spStarmap mappings generated by Autodeobf. Uses the tinvyv1 format.

Unless otherwise specified, conventions exist that use sensible default
values. For non-galimulator games, you may want to change
`withAutodeobf`, `withSLDeobf`, and `withSLDeobfMappings`,
though honestly only `withAutodeobf` is really mandatory.
Keep in mind that SML6 expects games to always be a monojar,
an assumption that really does not make much sense. You are welcome
to change it (provided you ensure that it actually does what you want,
I can fix my end later :p).

Note: Although this goes against common sense, the Switchmap
classes get remapped via sl-deobf, but no mappings
file will be generated. So … just don't touch them. This issue
will be resolved eventually, but requires patches to sl-deobf.

### FetchGameTask

The FetchGameTask task defines following properties:
- `aggressiveCaching`: `Property<Boolean>`, whether to cache aggressively. This may easily result in outdated jars for games that update frequently, at the benefit of much better performance.
- `outputJar`: `RegularFileProperty`, the resolved game jar will be stored at the location provided by this property.
- `primaryGameJar`: `RegularFileProperty`, this is the primary location to look for the jar. If the jar does not exist at that location, only then it will try to find it through common steam installation directories. This property should be set to allow people to work with older versions of a game.
- `steamApplicationId` (**unused**): `Property<Integer>`, the appId of the game to fetch. Currently unsused, but might reserved for future use.
- `steamApplicationName`: `Property<String>`, the name of the steam application, or rather the name of the directory your game is located in relation to the "common" directory.
- `steamJarPath`: `Property<String>`, the path of game jar in relation to the game's directory on steam.

The default values of this task are for galimulator. For other games, readjust the properties to follow your game.

SML6 expects games to be bundled as a single jar. However, many games are likely to be bundled across multiple jars.
In that case, just create a merge request to SML6 to implement the desired functionality. I unfortunately
lack the resources to do the job for you (after all, I won't be modding the same game as you).

### XZTarBallerTask

The `XZTarBallerTask` class extends `Tar`.

The XZTarBallerTask task defines the following properties:
- `compressionLevel`: `Property<Integer>`, the compression level to use for XZ. Maximum value is 9, however for small-ish files the default of 6 does the same thing.

All properties of `Tar` also apply, with the exception of `compression`, which is unused.

The archive's default destination directory is by default set to
[BasePluginExtension#getDistsDirectory](https://docs.gradle.org/9.1.0/javadoc/org/gradle/api/plugins/BasePluginExtension.html#getDistsDirectory()).
The default archive name is similarly derived.
If the base plugin is absent, sane defaults will be used.

The XZTarBallerTask task is meant for shipping compressed mapping files. There is no real need
for using this exact task, and other compression methods can be used.
However, at the point of writing (2025-Oct-13), gslStarplane only supports .tar.xz and .xz
compression. Though that may be subject to change in future versions of gslStarplane.

XZTarBallerTask is only meant to compress engima mapping directories. For other formats,
use the XZCompressTask class instead.

Example task configuration:
```groovy
task tarballXZ(type: org.stianloader.sml6.tasks.XZTarBallerTask) {
    from "src/mappings"
    group = "build"
    archiveExtension = "enigma.tar.xz"
}

assemble.dependsOn(tarballXZ)
```

### XZCompressTask

The `XZCompressTask` class extends `AbstractArtifactTask`, and thus shares many
of the properties present in `AbstractArchiveTask`, namely all the `archive`
properties, as well as the `destinationDirectory` property.

The `XZCompressTask` task defines the following properties:
- `compressionLevel`: `Property<Integer>`, the compression level to use for XZ. Maximum value is 9, however for small-ish files the default of 6 does the same thing.
- `inputFile`: `RegularFileProperty`, the input file to compress

To improve ease-of-use (or to just alleviate the pains of muscle-memory), the
`XZCompressTask` supports the `from(Object)` notation. However, keep in mind
that the method may only be called once. Further, `XZCompressTask` can only
compress a single file. To compress an entire directory or otherwise multiple
files at once, consider using `XZTarBallerTask` instead. The `into(Object)`
notation is not supported - not that it makes any sense in the first place.

The `XZCompressTask` task is meant for shipping compressed mapping files. There
is no real need for using this exact task, and other compression methods can be
used. However, at the point of writing (2025-Oct-13), gslStarplane only
supports .tar.xz and .xz compression. Though that may be subject to change in
future versions of gslStarplane.

The archive's default destination directory is set to the directory defined by
[BasePluginExtension#getDistsDirectory](https://docs.gradle.org/9.1.0/javadoc/org/gradle/api/plugins/BasePluginExtension.html#getDistsDirectory()).
The default archive name is similarly derived.
If the base plugin is absent, sane defaults will be used.

To express the results of the `XZCompressTask` as a `PublishArtifact`,
use the `asArtifact()` method provided by `AbstractArtifactTask`.
You will need to mainly use this for maven publications.

Example task configuration:
```groovy
task compressXZ(type: org.stianloader.sml6.tasks.XZCompressTask) {
    from  "tiny-file.tiny"
    group = "build"
    archiveExtension = "tiny.xz"
}

assemble.dependsOn(compressXZ)

publishing {
    publications {
        mavenJava(MavenPublication) {
            groupId = project.group
            artifactId = project.base.archivesName.get()
            version = project.version

            artifact compressXZ.asArtifact()
        }
    }
}
```
